The Sentiment of Crypto Art

one-of-a-kind collectible

OBJECTIVE: predicted the DJIA closing values one day in ad- vance
BENEFIT: we can use these predicted values to make intelligent sell/buy decisions


Efficient Market Hypothesis (EMH)

News Sentiments?

Market sentiment is a qualitative measure of the attitude and mood of investors to financial markets in general, and specific sectors or assets in particular.

Nifty 50 Index for the stock price data and Stock News from a popular twitter handle.

Twitter News Data

pre-trained sentiment analyzer VADER


 3 qualities of a stationary time series:

    Constant mean
    Constant variance
    Autocovariance that does not depend on time. Autocovariance is the covariance between the time series and lagged time series.


Two methods which can help us make it stationary:

    Moving Average Method
    Differencing Method


Text mining in finance 
Social media data 
Sentiment extraction 
Trend-Following 
Alternative data

detect significant predictive gains over benchmark models in times of negative mar- ket returns.

the relation between expert sentiment metrics and stock indices is sufficient to devise hypothetically profitable cross-sectional as well as time series momentum investment strate- gies for futures based on Twitter signals that survive basic transaction cost assumptions. In this context, our results show that expert sentiment signals can yield higher risk-adjusted returns than classical price- based signals.

 routinely incorpo- rate tweets and predictive support functions based on textual data into their trading data systems.

sentiment signals into in- vestment strategies.

 daily Twitter information stream for major stock index regions is rich and continuous, i.e. covers every time of a year. This permits con- stant positioning irrespective of news arrivals.

sentiment signals in the context of trend following strategies originally devised for stock index returns.

natural way to control the volatility of investment strategies based on forecasts of signs of returns.

close this gap we employ regionally aggregated sentiment measures in time series and cross-sectional momentum investment strategies for stock index futures. 


dictionary approach to sentiment extraction 

better accuracy of direc- tional expert sentiment metrics for predicting negative market return directions when compared to non-expert sentiment met- rics



behavioral economics

 emotions and moods of individuals affect their decison making process

direct correlation between ”public sentiment” and ”market sentiment”


4 classes - Calm, Happy, Alert and Kind (somewhat like fuzzy membership).

OpinionFinder and Google Profile of Mood States (GPOMS) algorithm to classify public sentiment into 6 categories, namely, Calm, Alert, Sure, Vital, Kind and Happy. 

validated the resulting mood time series by comparing its ability to detect the public’s response 


 runs the model to predict the future value and uses the predicted values to make appropriate buy/sell decisions.

major aber- rations and cannot be predicted

shifting up/down for steep falls/jumps,

mood classes, namely, Calm, Happy, Alert, and Kind.

(1) Word List GenerationWe develop our own word list based on the well known Profile of Mood States (POMS) questionnaire. 

(2) Tweet FilteringAs mentioned earlier, the tweet data is enormous and will take several hours to be processed if used as it is (which makes the task of daily predictions difficult). Therefore, we filtered and considered only those tweets which are more likely to express a feeling

(3)  Daily Score ComputationWe used a simple word counting algorithm to find the score for every POMS word for a given day-score of a word = #of times the word matches tweets in a day / #of total matches of all words

(4) Score MappingWe map the score of each word to the six standard POMS states using the mapping techniques specified in the POMS questionnaire.

(5) variety of socio-cultural events

DE-RISKING OUR MODEL: sequential cross validation


VALIDATION:

Cross validation of our sentiment analysis by analyzing moods on some important events

dataset needs to really map the real public sentiment


Granger Causality In order to ascertain whether the mood values returned by our algorithm can be used to predict the future stock movements, we computed the p-values us- ing Granger Causality analysis. 

4 dif- ferent learning algorithms (Linear Regression, Logistic Re- gression, SVMs, Self Organizing Fuzzy Neural Networks) to learn and study the actual correlation.

Neural networks have been considered to be a very effective learning algorithm for de- coding nonlinear time series data [4], and financial markets often follow nonlinear trends.

 ICHD gives the best results in all the algo- rithms considered, indicating that Calmness and Happiness are more predictive of the stock values, 


optimal parametrization
What is the needed a large enough test set
What is our bottom limited test data


MARKETPLACES / DATA COLLECTION:

                
we experienced that col- lecting blockchain art data is not a trivial task.
tech marketplaces:                                                  
                    
most galleries do not o er a reliable API, hence we had to rely on general purpose solutions like the API of the Ethereum blockchain explorer etherscan.io.
        
When data are downloaded, they need to be  ltered by smart contracts of the gallery. Typically, a gallery uses di erent contracts for di erent purposes and this information is generally di cult to  nd and is not well documented. Moreover, changes like the update of a contract or the deployment of a new contract needs to be taken into account. Finally, there exists no standard for operability of crypto art galleries. Each gallery implements its own business logic written in-home using the smart contract language of the blockchain where it operates, like Solidity on Ethereum. Therefore, each gallery needs to by treated as a particular case, and this clearly hinders the scalability of the data fetching engine.

open data, another facet of crypto art that distinguishes it from its traditional counterpart is velocity. In crypto art events happen at every instant: an artist mints a new piece or accepts a bid made from a collector, a collector bids or directly buys an artwork, two users  ip artworks, and more. From a data science viewpoint, the crypto art market corresponds to an open, real-time stream of data, more akin to  nancial trading than traditional art.

unstructured, textual metadata that accompanies each art- work. 

title, a description and a list of tags for each tokenized artwork.

use sentiment analysis [1] on the textual metadata to mine the sentiment of each artwork. The goal is twofold:1. discover what sentiment poles (positive or negative) and emotions (anger, fear, anticipa- tion, trust, surprise, sadness, joy, or disgust) are expressed by crypto artists when they create digital art;2.  nd out if crypto collectors are in uenced by these emotions when buying digital art.

help users find artworks that they might have overlooked otherwise
help users  find artworks that they might have overlooked otherwise

Superrare gallery’s API, available on Kaggle

NRC lexicon is a list of English words and their associations with eight basic emotions (anger, fear, anticipation, trust, surprise, sadness, joy, and disgust) and two sentiment poles (negative and positive).

correlated the emotion ratings for each artwork.
artwork and emotion

 a positive group containing joy, trust, surprise and anticipation;

 a negative group containing sadness, disgust, angry and fear.

 evolution of sentiment poles (positive and negative) 

Conclusion:

causative relation between public mood as measured from a large scale collection of tweets
public mood can indeed be captured from the large-scale Twitter feeds by means of simple natural language processing techniques

